How Will AI Affectthe JobMarket? (title)
By Anna Yao (auth)

What is AI? (head)
Artificial Intelligenceis on the rise -from the use of ChatGPT to self-driving cars, AI is teaching machines to think like humans through data and code. Withthis technology being improved and developed at an alarming fast rate, it’s safe to say that there willbe a notable impact on our future economy as a result. However, this leads us to a rather big question. How will it impact our economy andour future jobs? Is AI going to leave millions without work? On the contrary, will it open up the job market to allow for more opportunity? 
(md-br)
Automation (head)
It seems reasonable to assume that chatbots which already exist are only going to keep improving at a rapid pace. This would lead to automation in jobs surrounding repetitive and customer oriented tasks, including but notlimited to: customer service, reception, advertising work, retail, and even potentially transportation. Doctor’s offices would no longer need workers at the front to check people in nor would companies require a salesperson when they have digital marketing and can attract more customers through analyzing data patterns. Furthermore, retail workers may no longer be necessary due to automatic checkout at grocery stores, and transportation relatedjobs could also slowly deplete with the introduction of self driving cars and other modes of transport. According to the World Economic Forum, it’s estimated that somewhere around 85 million jobs will be replaced by AI by 2025. 
(sm-br)
However, not all of these changes are necessarily bad. An example of thisin the Industrial Revolution of the 1800s, where America underwent drastic changes to their economy and labor force dynamic. Although jobs had been dramatically shifted around, this actually benefited both the people and the economy by getting rid of menial task jobs and allowing for more productivity and higher skilled work. In a similar fashion, it can be said that AI will have that effect by expanding the job market dramatically one way with an opportunity cost of the diminishing of relatively low skilled jobs. 
(md-br)
What Won’t Be Affected by AI? (head)
Not to worry -there are still many core professions that will remain nearly untouched and unthreatened by the rise in technology. Among these, there are teachers, lawyers,artists, writers, doctors, managers, and much more; the reasonfor this is the human element. Although AI can and will become a dominating force in the future, it is still a network of computers and numbers at the end of the day. Many aspects of human life are irreplaceable in their own right, such as the creativity of artists and writers or the personability of teachers. Not only that, but many jobs require the consideration of multiple factors beyond simple data -surgeons, psychiatrists, and all sorts of doctors need to factor in the emotional and situational side of things in addition to the medical. 
(sm-br)
Lastly, some professions may be untouched for ethical reasons. Fear towards AI taking over the world is a dramatic but nonetheless valid concern which keeps the rise and innovations of technology at a safe rate. Not only that, but the needfor personability will disallow AI from taking some jobs. While it is true that it will most certainly continue to grow and influence our lives, it is also imperative to recognize the limitations and concerns around AI. Learning more about new surges in this field can help promote logical and knowledgeable opinionsand dissipate any unfounded fears. 


